---
published: True
---
## My 2017 reading list

Below is a listing of my reading list from 2017. To help me cover more ground, I like to use Audible while I'm driving, I highly recommend you check it out. The format of the list is as follows: 

** Book Title ** - Author - Short Description

Without further ado, I give you the list: 

* **The Road to Ruin** - Jim Rickards - Fantastic book on how the complexity of our financial system will be our undoing. By using Complexity Theory, a relatively new physics-based disciple, and history, Jim shows the dangers and end game for our current financial trajectory. 

* **Learn Python the Hard Way** - Zed A. Shaw - Interesting book on learning python. I started it over a year ago and only finally finished it. Not my favorite, but I did learn a few things. The best part was the command line tutorial, I really learned a lot from it the summer of 2015.

* **Ego is the Enemy** - Ryan Holiday - AMAZING book on the critical danger of a rampant ego and how to not to succumb to it. A book to reread multiple times. 

* **Steps to Christ** - Ellen White - Fantastic book on repenting and becoming a servant of God. Read often.

* **Creativity, Inc.** - Ed Catmull - Fantastic book on leadership, the importance of honesty and criticism of work to improve, but never the criticism of the *person*.

* **Six Easy Pieces** - Richard Feynman - Good intro to physics concepts. Dr. Feynman is a genius, but the audiobook was a little hard to follow without seeing the board. Study the full Feynman lectures at some point

* **Inventology** - Pagan Kennedy - A classic Barticle (the book that should be an article). Overall a good premise on how invention can be democratized with Kickstarter, buying lab time, etc. Would be a great two-part article.

* **Linux Pocket Guide**  - Daniel J. Barrett  - Good reference book! Linux is very, very powerful if learned fully.

* **The Laws of Simplicity** - John Maeda - Another barticle. It was about simplicity in products, for example is what people crave.This book can be summed up with the adage: "Simplicity is always a growth industry". Only simplicity when complexity is covered up though. 

* **The Iliad** - Homer - Fantastic book! I definitely see why it is considered a classic. Morals of the story don’t harbor animosity towards anyone, it can ruin you, and to think level-headed around and about women.

* **Time Series Forecasting in Python**  - Jason Brownlee - Great introductory book on time series forecasting. Review often. A lot of great example code but focused only on univariate modeling.

* **The Odyssey** - Homer  - Great book about grit and perseverance despite all odds. Never, never, never, never give up.

* **The Obstacle is the Way** - Ryan Holiday - Great book about how everything can be a learning experience and obstacles should be used for growth. The hard path is always the best in the end; through difficulty, we develop skills and perseverance. A good intro to Stoicism as well.

* **The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin** - Benjamin Franklin - Fantastic book on the one and only Benjamin Franklin. Highlights how constantly learning, by reading, and improving oneself, while being a good citizen, and working hard, are the tried and true keys to success.

* **The Great Controversy** - Ellen White - Wow, what a tour de force. A fantastic book about the whole earth's history. Definitely use as a reference, and a repeat read, for sure.

* **On Competition** - Michael Porter - Decent book, some articles were amazing, some were not. Some great thoughts on healthcare reform, USA capital structure form, and clustering of businesses.

* **Introduction to Mathematical Economics** - Edward Dowling - Fantastic review book! Was very helpful for reviewing calculus and studying linear algebra.

* **Aeneid** -Virgil - Excellent book. A combination of Iliad and the Odyssey (continued, really) plus a good dose of Roman propaganda.

* **The Death of Expertise** -Tom Nichols- audiobook- Another barticle. Some good points about how people are so misinformed and cocky about knowing things they know nothing about, but it seemed a little bit like a rant by an angry professor.

* **The New Case for Gold** - Jim Rickards - Great points! Was more of a barticle than a book with multiple points repeated. Very good though.

* **Business Adventures: Twelve Classic Tales from the world of Wall Street** - John Brooks - A fantastic book! Definitely a classic, some great stores about how humans operate. It contains valuable lessons for what to to do, and not do, in business.

* **Liberal Fascism**  - Johan Goldberg - An AMAZING book analyzing fascism and how the Left has more fascist tendencies than the right. Very good book on politics and subliminal agendas.

* **Currency Wars** - Jim Rickards - As always with Jim, an amazing book with detailed, out-of-the-box economic analysis. Lots of information to incorporate into my own research.

* **The 5 Languages of Appreciation in the Workplace** - Gary Chapman and Paul White - A barticle, but an overall good read. Very useful in relationships to understand how to show appreciate in a way that is special to each person.

* **Mere Christianity** - C.S. Lewis - An amazing book on what it means to be a Christian from an ex-atheist. Highly recommended, very clear thinking, refer to often.

* **Perennial Seller** -Ryan Holiday - Great book on how to make a classic in any genre. Also a generally great book on real marketing.

* **The Peloponnesian War** - Thucydides - A good book, a real tour de force. A little long and tedious at times.

* **Three Greek Tragedies** - Euripides, Sophocles, Aeschylus - A great collection of the plays Medea by Euripides, Antigone by Sophocles and Agamemnon by Aeschylus. Medea is a very gruesome story, but all of them are good reads.

* **Elements of Statistical Learning** - Jerome H. Friedman, Robert Tibshirani, and Trevor Hastie - Fantastic book, the gold standard on learning machine learning algorithms. A very intense book, definitely need to refer to frequently.

* **The Persians** - Aeschylus - Very interesting little play telling the Persian side of Xerxes's defeat at Salamis by the Greeks. Important to remember the wives and mothers back home on the losing side.

* **The Suppliants** - Aeschylus - A play that goes over the plight of some young women who seek refuge in Argos following scheduled marriages to their cousins. As we are so far removed from that culture, it was not the most interesting play, a little too much worship of Zeus, for instance.

Let me know if you have read any of these books and your thoughts on them. Also, I would love to hear your reading highlights from 2017. 

Until next time, 

Andrew

 
